Seir points so i lia i tiw do wich bai chiw do projekh?
My role in the team is to talk to industry and ask them if they have projects
that they're prepared to give us so that they can help students with their learning
and the students can be a value to the client and produce something good for the client.
My job is to go out and talk to industry and ask them if they'll give up their time and their resources
and give us a project for students to work on.
My job is not technical, it's very much a relationship job,
and then as I say I work with Jackie, Ramesh, Tanya, we're part of a team,
so everybody in the team has different parts to play and that's my role.
…so do you want to take some notes or you're just going to record, which is easiest for you to do at handpaper?
You're going to take some notes or, yeah, because these meetings are very important, they're very precious.
This is where you're going to gather a lot of information, so it might be good for you to take some information of, yeah, so that you can make some progress.
So you are collecting those projects and update those projects to the share point?
Yeah, the share point is just one small part of my job, so I think it's really important for you as working on this project,
is to understand that the technical part of it is one part of it, but the communication and the relationships is a big part of it as well,
which with students in the past, and they're very focused on just understanding the technical part, but there's a bigger picture here,
and it's just like we're having a meeting now, I have meetings like this with clients, so there's lots of communication, lots of discussion,
and then the share point plays a part, but that's not the main part of my job, but that's where things get recorded, yeah.
So I think it's important for you to understand that, you know, I think a lot of students just want to write about the technical part,
but you've got to take the whole thing and it's entirely, does it make sense?
Yeah, it makes sense.
Because sometimes students just want to talk about share point, and it's like that's just a tiny part of the job.
So what do you think about your challenges in this job process?
Okay, so I think the challenges for me, this is my first year in this job, and so we have students studying projects in Semester 1,
and then we have students studying projects in Semester 2, so that means that we also have students finishing projects in Semester 1,
and we also have students finishing in Semester 2. So if you kind of have a diagram, and this is say 2023, so we've got Semester 1 and Semester 2,
so we've got students here starting and finishing, but in Semester 2 we've got students starting, and then over here in 2024, in Semester 1,
we've got students finishing. I think it's important you get your head around this, because so you understand everything what was just more hard.
So this year we have many students studying Semester 1 and then finishing the Semester.
You guys are just starting in the Semester, so you'll be finishing next Semester.
So if we have students starting and finishing in both Semesters, there's two cohorts. I'm giving you this big picture so you understand everything after that.
It's important you understand how the whole thing works, not just a small part of it.
So you know like first of all the biggest thing is to understand how this works, and then everything else I say will start making sense for you.
So I also think, and I think it's English, you'll see it in language for both of you.
Well done, you two languages, that's very impressive. I only speak one language, I wish I could speak two.
But another thing I think is if it helps to make diagrams, well we're talking if that helps you understand things, don't feel shy about doing that as well.
So you've got a little bit in your 12th grade. So maybe I'll just give you a little overview and then I can get into a bit more detail.
So I just started this job here. I've been in the school for many, many years so I understand the school and how things work really well.
So the actual collecting the projects are I just started it in semester one. So students starting in semester one and finishing in semester two, I'm understanding the cycle.
But I'm also understanding that new students like yourself are only just starting in semester two and you'll be finishing in semester one.
So all of this is going on for my team all the time. So like in this semester when students are finishing there's 177 students finishing.
So that's a lot of students, it's a lot of projects, that's a lot of industry. And then this cohort that which is your cohort starting and finishing, this is all happening at the same time.
So you're balancing students starting students finishing, you're balancing looking for projects in semester one, looking for projects in semester two.
So I just wanted to make it help you understand that that helpful just that you can understand that because yeah like when we've got 177 students finishing.
That gives you an idea of how many people we're talking to, we're talking to a lot of people all the time.
So that's Jackie and Remesion Tania, dealing with 177 individuals. And then you know I'm talking to all the industry people who are supporting these students.
And when I say supporting what I mean is that industry are giving up their time to help these students with their projects and their learning.
So I think it's really useful and important for you as students to understand the time commitments that industry give to these students because industry they're there to make money, they're very busy people.
So for them to stop and help students, it's really good of them to give their time and resources.
So if there is a problem with a student team and industry, that is one of my challenges.
So if I go to industry and tell them we have great students who are going to be graduating at the end of this project, they want to do some good work.
And then the student and then the industry go okay I'll work with them.
So if students don't come to the meetings or don't communicate well or keep the client informed of the work they're doing, the client gets very unhappy and then I hear about it.
And that makes me unhappy because it's embarrassing because I have told the client that our students are going to do a good job and they're very keen to work with you.
So that is one of my challenges. I get these relationships with industry.
I am delighted that they agree to give us their time and energy.
But industry don't hear regularly from students or the students don't keep in contact or whatever, industry become very unhappy.
So that's the number one challenge and that brings me back to the point that when you're doing this project, obviously you're a computer science student.
So the sheer point is important but the communication, the understanding of people's time, all those things are just as important because one doesn't work without the other.
And sometimes I think students might forget to talk about that in their report, some things like that.
So that's kind of why I'm making that point.
So yeah, so I'd say first challenge is...
It's relationship, not working.
That worries me very much because then I lose the client and I don't want to give us more projects.
Because finding projects is a big job. There's only so many companies.
And if the student and the company have a good working relationship, the company might give me a project next time.
But if it doesn't go well, I don't want to do it again.
So relationship is really important.
So that's a first challenge.
I suppose another challenge is just finding...
Yeah, just what's another challenge?
Maybe before I give you another example, do you want to comment on that or do you have any questions about that?
Do you want to expand on that?
What about information of your issue with you?
Yes.
So, so basically, one move to semester two, there are the same projects.
Say that again, sorry.
So semester one and semester two?
No, because your project is over two semesters.
Yeah, over two semesters.
So semester one, semester two, that's one cycle.
And then your cycle is semester two, semester one.
So they're just...
Yeah, what was your comment or your question?
So I heard you say you will connect all the projects through semester one and semester two and semester one.
Like all the projects in semester one?
At the moment, I'm starting to look for projects for next year.
Because all our students who are finishing their projects, they're going to graduate at the end of this year.
So you've got your start of your project.
But students who are going to start in semester one next year, they need to have a project.
So now, I need to be looking for projects for our students who are starting in semester one.
It takes a long time.
It takes a long time to have many conversations.
Because you talk to industry, you tell them what it is you want them to do.
They go away and they talk with their work colleagues and discuss it.
Then they come back to meet at all of that takes time.
So it's not like, hey, have you got a project? I need one.
Thank you.
Great. Bye.
It's kind of like, hey, do you have a project?
Would you like to meet sometime?
I can make a time.
We have a meeting.
Talk about it with you a week later.
Oh, thanks for making some time to meet.
This is how it works.
This is what we do, I share some information with them.
They also say, okay, thank you.
I'll have to talk to my team.
They go away.
They talk to their team.
It might be three weeks later to, you know, like, that takes time.
You know, they might come back and say, hey, we've got a project.
I go great.
Can you please send it to me so I can see what it is?
Because I asked them to write it down.
And then it comes to me.
And then I have to look at it.
I have to discuss it with my team.
So many weeks go past.
Because it's quite a lot of work that has to happen.
And then Jackie and Remedial look at the project.
And they'll decide whether it's good or not good.
Some projects are suitable.
Some projects are not suitable.
If the project is suitable, it's like, yes, this is really good.
I'll put it over here and we can use that project.
If it's not suitable, it's like, it has to go in this pile.
And you keep looking until you've got enough projects for all the students.
So that takes time.
And it's all about lots of meetings, lots of conversations.
And making sure, you know, that every week or every two weeks
you're talking to that person and talking to the project land in your inbox.
Yeah, so how do you record those projects?
Okay, so the project.
So I bring my computer to the next meeting because I just didn't know what we were going to talk about today.
So this is good.
We can just give an overview.
So I seem to them a document.
And I asked them to complete it.
The email it back to me.
So that.
Or there's this admitted to me, you know, like, so I receive a copy of it.
So, sorry, I kind of just say you receive it by email.
And then I share it with a team.
Okay, and then then we discuss it.
Discuss whether it's good or good suitable.
If it is suitable, it goes on SharePoint.
So I got a lot of questions.
How do you find about the, I mean, the discussion about the level.
How do you like?
The example project that are hard and some project that are easy.
And that's why I discuss it with the academics.
So Jackie, you measure the academics, the academic leaders in this protein that I work in.
And they look at it and they assess whether it's suitable or not suitable.
Is it too easy? Is it too hard?
They make those decisions.
They have to read it and they have to think about it and they just know.
And then that's when they say yes, no, yes pile, no pile.
Yeah.
So it's a matter of absorbing the information.
You have to read it.
You have to understand it.
It's not just a computer thing.
It's like, for example, you might receive a project proposal and it might involve having to get.
For example, we had one project from a hospital and when we looked at the project,
we realised that student can't work on real data from a hospital because it's private data.
So that becomes a problem.
Does that make sense when I do understand that point?
Yeah. So it's like you can't let students have access to like a few and possible and you've got second, you have an operation.
You wouldn't want students knowing your information because it's private.
So that's one example. There's so many examples.
So that's why people have to read it and understand what the project is.
And they have to understand the implications of whether it's suitable or not suitable.
Yeah.
So in our research, after students, they are being, after students pick projects, they will write a phone to...
Okay, so I'm going to draw your diagram because I think this will help you. So it's kind of like...
I'll just do IA for industry advisor searches for projects.
Oh, yeah.
I think every I do a diagram is helpful.
Search for projects, discussion with industry.
Yeah.
Okay.
And then industry submits a project.
Yeah.
Okay.
And I'll just go via email because I sent it to me that way.
Okay. And then industry advisor, this is me, industry advisor.
Industry advisor shares project with academic leaders.
You can take a photo of this. I think it's better you just listen and then you can take a photo of it.
So you... so to make sure you're understanding.
So I share project with academic leaders, leaders assess the suitability of the project.
So efforts, yes.
No.
If it's yes, it goes into share point.
If it's no, oh, well, I'll just really do the yes because this is...
So yes, it goes on to share point.
And then...
And then an expression of interest gets sent to students.
And then students choose.
And then students choose.
And then academics, what do they think?
If they... academics then sort what's about the academics sort of like the sort of resources.
So take a photo of this because I think this is really helpful.
Yeah, to start it up.
Just like this.
From here.
I'm just hoping it.
And after that has still done real to a server.
What's that?
Still done real to a server.
Students will do a form.
Well, an expression of interest gets sent to the students.
And then the students respond to their expression of interest.
Yes.
Students respond. They choose. They respond.
So something comes to the students.
And they choose it.
And then the academics...
So students choose and academics receive...
Receive that this information.
And we understand the students being assessed for projects.
It is still evaluated as the students GPI or a board.
Well, a mixture, a good question. It's a mixture of GPA, major.
Students choose the projects that they like to do.
And then that information comes back to the academics.
And then many students might choose the same project, for example.
So decisions have to be made.
And academics try to give students...
Who choose one, two, three projects, first preference, second preference, third preference.
So students don't always get their first preference.
It's just not possible.
Because everybody might choose the same project.
Or, you know, like you might...
So academics then have to spread those projects across all the students.
So things that get it taken into consideration is the students major.
Students, GPA.
Those are probably... That's the information that academics have to go on.
Academics know the students.
They know if they tune up to class, they know if they do their work.
They know if they're good students or not good students.
You know what I mean?
But there's a whole range of students.
You know what I mean?
And then obviously students have to work in teams.
So, you know, just making...
So all that gets taken into consideration.
And then that's how academics put the teams together.
So I got one more question.
How do you find...
I mean, I do the lab...
The system will help you improve your job.
I think that's too broad a question.
Yeah, that's just...
Yeah, like my job isn't about systems.
My job is about relationships and communication.
And I can't automate that.
I need to build a relationship with industry.
I need to meet them.
I need to talk to them.
I need them to listen to me.
I need them to understand what they're getting involved in.
If that was just a computer thing, there's no relationship.
So my job is a very relationship driven.
And that's what I'm trying to make you understand right from the start.
This isn't all just about automation.
This is about relationships.
Your relationship with your client, the way you communicate with them.
And I need you to understand when you do this project
that don't just concentrate on the technical aspects.
I know, as I said before, that your computer science students
that's a really good part of your project,
totally understand that.
But don't underestimate the soft skills that I'm talking about
because if we don't have soft skills,
project work will never be successful.
It's like I work with Jackie and her mesh.
I need a good relationship with them.
I need to meet once a week to make sure we build that rapport.
If I just see the emails all the time, no relationship.
Do you understand what I mean?
Yeah.
So your question is such a big question.
I think you need to break it down.
My question is like,
do you like through the communications and technical
so how would the technical help you with the communications?
I mean, like, during the...
So, so, so, no matter how you are meeting with those in this street
by all of night or all night.
By what?
Or all night or all night.
I prefer on offline because it's just like I'm meeting with you.
I can start building a rapport with you.
Online is better than nothing and sometimes it has to be online
because people might be far away or whatever.
So, I do both.
But it's so important to build that relationship
because if you don't, the project isn't even going to work.
So, for me, I like to do both.
And I feel that if you can meet at least once in person,
this is my relationship with the client,
you're going to get a match.
I'm going to get a much better rapport with them.
They get to know me.
I get to know them.
You can meet people's body language.
You can figure out if you're going to get along or not.
So, but then, you know, everybody's very busy as well.
So, it's a mixture of online and in person.
Yeah.
So, sometimes I think online can be just as good sometimes.
But if it's just online all the time,
something's missing, a little bit.
But sometimes you just have to make that work.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I consider a part of the relationship.
And that's what it is.
And it's a bit like your relationship.
Your relationship has going to have to be really strong
because you're both working as a team together.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So, meeting together like you are today is really good.
Because you're both hearing, you're both hearing me,
you're both meeting me, you can read my body language,
we can build, you know.
So, yeah.
Do comment on that and your reports about the communication
and the relationships.
Because projects are about people working together.
Yeah.
So, I can really stress that point really clearly
because it's absolutely critical.
So, when you sort of say how can,
what was your question, how can technology
take a long journey and relate to the communication.
I mean, like, that takes, I have,
take a help to communicate,
like, in the field to communicate.
Do you think technical things do improve communications?
Like, I suppose I'll put that question back to you.
What's your thoughts on that?
Not ready.
But maybe you can help with the reviews or like,
just like,
all the, all the,
all the, not all the dancers,
like all the projects of somehow studios
were shown like in the,
like, just like the draft, like, relationship.
Like, so I'm not okay.
I mean, like, I mean, like,
the technical shows the information.
I mean, the,
oh yeah, the data.
Yeah, yeah.
You can show, like,
and you can communicate through the,
through the project.
Yeah, but, but for the relationship,
I guess, or for life better to build a relationship.
You have to build a relationship.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So, yeah, this is my feeling with SharePoint
is it's just, it's just a whole data.
It's, it's critical.
You have to, you SharePoint to hold all the data.
But that doesn't,
but that's a broader relationship.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You rely on the data
to make things work
and to track things.
That's absolutely critical and crucial.
So, the data has to be looked after and managed.
But, and that helps the project succeed
because, for example,
you know, like,
I talk to so many, like, for example,
do you know about the showcase
that happens at the end of semester?
Like, you know, yeah, yeah.
So, we have that showcase happening next week.
We have the poster.
Yeah, the poster is happening next week.
I have 20 industry coming to that event
to look at the student's posters.
Yeah.
If they have a nice,
if they're impressed,
that's a really good opportunity for me
to get more projects.
Yeah, yeah.
If they have nice conversations with the students,
they hear the students talking about everything they've learnt,
how good this project has been for the learning.
It makes industry think,
oh, maybe I could give a project to students
because this is really good.
Yeah, sorry, I keep going back to the relationship
instead of the technical stuff.
But, it's far as she...
What I was going to say about Sheer Point
is that how I've been known that,
it's like, yeah, there's 177 students in semester two.
I think we have,
in this life, four students in a team,
usually.
So I think there's like 177 students,
37 teams or something like that.
So that means that there's 37 teams.
The data helps remind me,
which industry is with a rich project,
because I can't keep that in my head,
like, like,
Diadacom, Auckland District Health,
or New Zealand Police,
which who's doing a rich project?
So the data that you put in Sheer Point
manages all of that.
And you can spit out...
Remesher sent me an email about a student
and asked me a question to invite somebody to the showcase.
So I'll go back to Sheer Point.
I'll look for that student.
I can see what project that students are.
I can then see who the client is with that.
And then I can invite them to the showcase.
So the data...
I rely completely on the data in Sheer Point to know...
So that's got to be really accurate and effective.
I've got more questions.
I'm sure she'll...
About the communications.
How do you solve the...
In our teams, it's supposed to be four to five people.
And like, two members leave by accident.
I have no idea what happens.
They're leave by accident.
Is that what you said?
He just said it.
I mean, like...
But by accident.
Or maybe I'm not in the courses.
Or...
Oh, so they've withdrawn from the course?
Yeah, they've withdrawn from the course.
So you've lost a member of your team.
Yeah, we lost three.
So they all pulled out.
They all said we're not doing the project anymore.
Yeah, there's nothing you can do about that.
How do you solve this problem?
I mean, like for the projects,
I mean the industries have...
They have requirements about the projects.
But no money we need to talk to the...
To the...
Well, I mean, if students withdraw from a paper,
that's totally beyond your control.
They might have withdrawn from the paper
because they got sick.
Or maybe they couldn't afford to pay for the paper.
Or maybe they...
I don't know why they withdrew from the paper.
That's way beyond your control.
You can't do anything about that.
How do you...
How do you communicate...
I mean, like the project...
Maybe it might be like...
It's only for four members to block all of them.
But all of a sudden,
there's left two of you.
So two of you are left instead of four of you,
is what you're saying.
Yeah.
Maybe there are requirements where we're going to have to meet
the requirements.
We all do think we're going to have to work that out between you.
And this is what I say about that.
This happens in business all the time.
And then we're going to have to work that out between you.
And this is what I say about that.
And the reason you're doing this project is because you're trying to make the bridge
from university to real working life.
My team here at the university often those things happen.
People get sick, people resign, people leave.
People get made redundant beyond your control.
So you just have to get on with it.
And you have to make it work.
So pros and cons.
Do you know what I mean by pros and cons?
So the cons, yeah.
Instead of four people doing the work.
The positives, less people to arrange meetings with,
should be easier for you to work together.
Because only two of you trying to get four people together,
four different papers, four part time jobs,
everyone living in different parts of Auckland.
Quite hard to get four people together.
So that's pros and cons.
So you could work more tightly as a team.
Which can make things easier.
Yeah.
So it's really just working out how you're going to do that
between yourselves.
So that's real life.
And don't be overwhelmed by it.
Because you could have four fantastic people in your team.
Or you could have one fantastic person
and three people who aren't very committed.
Or you could have two lazy people and two hardworking people.
In a team, when I start working here,
I never know what my colleagues are going to be like
until you start working as a team.
And you've just got to grab your team and make it good
and work really well together.
So don't think we've got more work.
It's not really that you've got more work.
It's just that you've got to figure out how your team works.
Yeah.
So yeah.
Yeah, I have a question.
If there is industry, there are unhappy.
How they give you feedback.
And they can see me emails.
And then they might ask for phone call.
Yeah.
If they have a software, they can provide a server
to those unhappy industry.
So it's that again?
If they have a software, they have a function.
And it can be send out a sender email
or send a server to those in the industry.
So they can collect the reason why they are feeling unhappy
or they are projects or whatever.
So do you think it's helpful or not?
I'm just thinking of what you're asking me.
Like you're asking me how I get the feedback from industry
if you're not happy.
I think that's what you're asking me.
So it's always an email or phone call.
Because they know, we as a student,
I haven't heard from them for ages,
they're not keeping me informed.
The first thing they're going to do is send an email
or talk to me.
They're not going to send me something
on the computer system because I'm not involved
in the computer system.
The computer system in their company
is nothing to do with my computer system
and my company.
Do you know what I mean?
What we use here at AUT is specifically
with an AUT, what other companies use
and the organisations are specifically for you.
So it's once again the industry communicates with me
and the only way you can communicate really
is by sending an email or putting up the phone.
Yeah, so that is what they do.
Yeah, I'm not sure if I've answered your question correctly.
Because I think you're asking me
if there's some kind of software that can be used to...
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
They can be used to provide feedback to you.
No.
Because remember it's a relationship.
So what kind of system would they use?
I don't...
Because we work with all sorts of different companies.
So there's no one piece of software that everybody's using.
Every company uses different...
Every company...
Yeah, the only way I could communicate with another company
is by email or phone them.
I couldn't really do it any other way.
And then if I have been claimed,
I want to have that conversation
because I can listen carefully.
I can ask questions.
I can understand if somebody just synced me something automated,
I can't understand the problem very well.
Do you know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
There's no messaging behind it.
Yeah.
So I have to go because I have another meeting.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
What are you going to do next?
What are your next steps after today's meeting?
Or you will talk about that now about what your next steps are
and what you have to do.
Maybe you're gathering information right now.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And think about this.
Because English as you can language,
writing a whole lot of stuff can be quite difficult.
I understand that.
So think about diagrams.
Think about flowcharts.
Think about how things work.
And what's the best way for you to track that information?
If you have to write a whole lot of stuff that can get very...
Yeah, that's all right.
It's just a recommendation because I have worked with project teams before.
And I understand that it's challenging, you know,
writing lots of information.
And I think sometimes diagrams can make things very clear for you.
And if you look at a diagram flow chart,
you can go, what happens here or what happens next?
If you're just reading lots of...
If you're just kind of...
You know, it's like, what are they saying?
Yeah, do you know what I mean?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So I know you're exploring things.
So maybe this is just a recommendation
that's entirely up to you as your project.
But maybe you have to ask talking today,
think about how you understand what my job is
on the flowchart or what.
And then I can understand when I meet you
next time if we're on the same page.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, sure.
I don't want to read lots and lots and lots.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
You can read it in your email.
Yeah, yeah.
So I'm happy to meet online.
I'm happy to meet in person.
Yeah.
Okay, but I'm really busy.
Just so...
Next time you want to have a meeting,
please talk between yourselves about your availability together.
And then send me this day or this day or this day
that these times we're you're free
and then I can try and match that.
Yeah, okay, thank you.
Yeah.
Oh, thank you.
So yeah, so just think about what I've said.
Thank you for your discussion.
Do you all work?
Yeah, yeah, thank you.
It's very much for today.
Yeah, you're welcome.
Thank you.
All right, I'll catch you later.
Thank you.
Bye.
